# Language files for 5 Minutes 5 Vegans

This is the repository containing the language files for the 5 Minutes 5 Vegans project.

You will find three types of files in here:
 * Keyworded translations (\<lang\>/\<section\>.php)
 * Phrase translations (\<lang\>.json)
 * Tweet translations (\<lang\>/tweets.php)

## Technical details
These language files are either JSON or PHP files, which means that they are subject to certain technical requirements to be parsed correctly. 
 * Parts that are encolapsed between ' or " are called strings and used as the data. Adding your own quotation mark in there will interrupt the string and break the format. To prevent that from happening, prefix your quotation mark with a backslash (\\).
 * Different items are contained between either { and } or [ and ]. They are also seperated with commas. Keep that in mind when adding new items, **missing a comma will break the entire format**! A comma for the last item is optional.
 * Sometimes a translation contains a value that is generated by the project, such as a corresponding name. These are prefixed with a colon, example: `"Hello :name and welcome to 5M5V!"`. When you find a missing translation with one but don't know the name of the value, feel free to tag me on Discord to ask.

## Keyworded translations
These are generic translations used for various functionality of the project. We feed these from an existing package for them, which means they should all be done and correct. There should generally be no reason for you to touch these.
 
## Phrase translations
This contains the various phrases and sentences used throughout the project. Whenever you find an untranslated sentence on the site, it's most likely already correctly setup to be translated. Just supply the old sentence followed by the translated one in the format that's already there. Example:
```
"Welcome to 5 Minutes 5 Vegans!": "Welkom bij 5 Minutes 5 Vegans!",
```
Add your new translation at the end of the list and don't forget to add a comma after the last item. Make sure that all the data is wrapped within { and } brackets.

## Tweet translations
These translations have to be dynamic to bypass the Twitter spam filter when people keep copy-pasting them. To that end we use regular expressions (regex) to construct these translations. Regex is normally used for pattern matching, but we use it for text generation through patterns instead, this may be a bit confusing. The gist is that our project takes the regex pattern and generates a text at random that could be matched by it.
For those unfamiliar with regex, these are the few things you should know to be able to do most translations:
 * A lot of non-alphanumeric characters have a meaning in regex, prefix them with a backslash (\\) to negate their meaning. The most common and overlooked ones are the period and the dash. `To co\-operate is a good idea\.`
 * Parentheses mark parts of the text as a group.
 * Suffixing an element with a question mark makes it optional. `Nice colou?r, you (guys )? are doing great!`
 * Pipes (|) can be used to seperate different items within a group to choose from. `That's a great (dish|recipe|meal)!`
 
 When you want to add an entirely new sentence as a possibility, you can add it to the list it fits in, rather than using massive groups.
